
# Keycloak Setup
_(c) AMWA 2021, CC Attribution-NoDerivatives 4.0 International (CC BY-ND 4.0)_

## Overview
We've used Keycloak to illustrate the basic configuration necessary for IS-10 Authorization.  However, other Authorization Servers are available, so you should map these configuration steps to your current, favorite Auth Server.

## Setup Procedure
### Install Keycloak
You can get a latest version from the [Keycloak Website](https://www.keycloak.org/getting-started)

## Configure Realms
- You need to set up a realm to work within (or use the default one for testing).  
- In Realm Settings, go to Tokens and select RS512 from the default signature algorithm.  

## Client Scope Config
-  Click Client Scopes and configure one or more [client scopes](https://specs.amwa.tv/is-10/branches/v1.0-dev/docs/4.4._Behaviour_-_Access_Tokens.html). For example, create one with a name 'registration', and a protocol of 'openid-connect'.

## Audience Config
- Within the created client scope, go to the 'Mappers' tab. Add a mapper with a name you choose, with a type of 'Audience'. The value of this claim should match the intended value of the ['aud' claim](https://specs.amwa.tv/is-10/branches/v1.0-dev/docs/4.4._Behaviour_-_Access_Tokens.html#aud). 
- In order to overcome the form validation, if this includes a '*' it must be copied and pasted into the field. If you require multiple audience values (using the array format), create multiple 'Audience' type mappers with different values.

## Private Claims
- [Private claims](3.2.%20NMOS%20Private%20Claims.md) are used in NMOS to control read/write access to APIs
-  Within the 'Mappers' tab, add another mapper with a name you choose, but with a type of 'Hardcoded Claim'. This should have a Claim JSON Type of 'JSON', a Claim Name of 'x-nmos-\*' (where \* is replaced by the API name) and a Claim Value which matches the structure in [the specification](https://amwa-tv.github.io/nmos-authorization/branches/v1.0-dev/docs/4.4._Behaviour_-_Access_Tokens.html#example-x-nmos-api-claim). 
- To overcome the validation this needs to be copied and pasted into the field.

## Repeat for All Scopes
- Repeat the previous three steps for each 'scope' supported. Note that in this limited implementation case you should use the same Claim Value for all 'x-nmos-\*' claims, covering the fully range of supported scopes. This is hacky, but provides a simpler proof of concept than the alternative [script provider mechanism](https://www.keycloak.org/docs/latest/server_development/#_script_providers).
- In Client Scopes, click the Default Client Scopes tab. Move all of the default and optional scopes which are already on the right hand side (enabled) to the left (disabled). Then move all of the created NMOS scopes from the 'Optional Client Scopes' available list, into the 'Assigned Optional Client Scopes' list.

## Setup Trusted Hosts
- In Realm Settings, go to Client Registration and Client Registration Policies. Under 'Anonymous Access Policies', enter 'Trusted Hosts' and add '\*.workshop.nmos.tv' (or similar). It may be necessary to disable 'Host Sending Client Registration Request Must Match', but this isn't recommended.
- Go to the 'Clients' menu and edit the 'admin-cli' client. Under Client Scopes, add the newly defined scope(s) above to the 'Optional client scopes' list. This is useful to enable the debug procedure below.

## Enable TLS, Redirects and Discovery
- In order to enable Keycloak for TLS (HTTPS) we would suggest using a Reverse Proxy such as the Apache web server.
- As Keycloak is an OpenID Connect server, it places the OAuth Client Metadata at a different path to the OAuth2 standards. When using an Apache Reverse Proxy this can be overcome by adding an alias for this path.
- Finally, once Keycloak is set up, suitable DNS records will need to be added to your DNS server in order to enable NMOS discovery.

An example Apache2 Reverse Proxy site configuration with a metadata alias is shown below. This makes Keycloak available on port 443, forwarding it from port 8082:
```
<VirtualHost _default_:443>
        <Location />
                ProxyPreserveHost On
                ProxyPass https://127.0.0.1:8082/ timeout=30 connectiontimeout=1 max=10 ttl=1 smax=10
                ProxyPassReverse https://127.0.0.1:8082/
        </Location>

        <Location /.well-known/oauth-authorization-server>
                ProxyPreserveHost On
                ProxyPass https://127.0.0.1:8082/auth/realms/master/.well-known/openid-configuration timeout=30 connectiontimeout=1 max=10 ttl=1 smax=10
                ProxyPassReverse https://127.0.0.1:8082/auth/realms/master/.well-known/openid-configuration
        </Location>

        RequestHeader set X-Forwarded-Proto "https"
        RequestHeader set X-Forwarded-Port "443"
        Header set Access-Control-Allow-Origin "*"

        SSLEngine on
        SSLProxyEngine on
        SSLProxyCheckPeerCN off
        SSLProxyCheckPeerName off
        SSLCertificateFile     /etc/ssl/certs/ssl-cert-snakeoil.pem
        SSLCertificateKeyFile /etc/ssl/private/ssl-cert-snakeoil.key
</VirtualHost>
```
