
# Validating Access Tokens
_(c) AMWA 2021, CC Attribution-NoDerivatives 4.0 International (CC BY-ND 4.0)_

There are number of steps needed to be considered while [validating the access token](https://specs.amwa.tv/is-10/branches/v1.0-dev/docs/4.5._Behaviour_-_Resource_Servers.html#validation-of-access-token). 

- Check that the JWT is well formed , such as JWT contains three segments, header, payload and signature, and are separated by two period ('.') characters. Each segment is base64url encoded.    
- Verify the signature, by generating a new Base64url-encoded signature using the issuer public key and verify that it matches the original Signature, to ensure token has not been tampered.  In event if the issuer [public key](https://specs.amwa.tv/is-10/branches/v1.0-dev/docs/4.5._Behaviour_-_Resource_Servers.html#public-keys) has not been known, it should attempt to obtain the missing public key via the the token `iss` claim as specified in [RFC 8414](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc8414 "OAuth 2.0 Authorization Server Metadata") section 3, and temporarily respond with an HTTP 503 code in order to avoid blocking the incoming authorized request.
- Check the standard claims, such as token expiration `exp` and token audience `aud`.
- Check the private claims, to verify whether it has permission for accessing the API.

If any of these steps fail, then the associated request must be rejected.

JWT.io has provided a number of third party libraries which support the JWT validation most of the steps described above. However, even using these libraries, the extra step for private claims validation is still required for checking the NMOS private claims.
